So, we were talking about General Wainwright.
Well, General Wainwright and I were together on
several trips. He seemed to take a liking to me. It
might have been partly due to the fact that he knew
my cousin, Fletcher Sharp, so well. But anyway, he
and I, we went out to, I think to Bandera or
someplace and they gave him a beautiful horse and a
silver mounted saddle and made him an honorary
deputy sheriff of Bandera County, and made me an
honorary deputy sheriff of Bandera County. On
another trip, I was with about 18 other general
officers and wives who were guests of the Mexican
government, and on that trip,
We would go- I've been to Mexico City so many times
that it was uninteresting to me and it was
uninteresting to General Wainwright after so
long time because he was looking for a place to get a
drink. So about 11 a.m. with all the sights anyway
about 11 a.m. General Wainwright would say, come
on Beverly let's go strike a blow for liberty.
We'd repair the nearest bar for a drink and let the
rest of the party go. Well, that got to be sort of
routine. Well, I liked the old fellow, but he was
pretty well shot physically when he got home. What
a shame. He needed whiskey just to keep going. How
about General Spouts? General who? Spouts.
Spots. S-P-A-A-T-Z. Spatz. Who? Spatz.
S-P-A-A-T-Z. Oh, Spatz. That's pronounced
Spatz. Oh, he was a fine officer. He was our first
Chief of Air Force. After we got the separate Air
Force, he was the first man to be selected Chief of
Air Force. I was on two trips with him. One to Rio and
Sao Paulo, Brazil and on another trip to Mexico
City and on down to Acapulco on a fishing trip. And
he and I were good friends. Now why did you, was this
after the war? Yeah. Why did you go to Mexico after
the war so often? Was this to build relations? Oh,
we had fine relations with the Mexican Air Force
and the Mexican General Salinas. He was chief of
the Mexican Air Force. He used to come up and visit
me and Kelly quite often. Sometimes he'd bring his
wife along and do a little shopping at our post
exchange.
You all sound like a scandal sheet in here. Well,
honey, this doesn't go any farther than that. I
hope not. We're just talking about famous people.
Yeah, Spots and I were good friends. We played gin
and rummy all the way from Washington to Rio and Sao
Paulo and all the way back to Washington.
Kept books on it and broke exactly even. Really?
Now while you were the commander at Kelly, in 1946
you received an honorary doctorate of law from
Texas A&M. Yeah. Tell me about that. Well, at that
time there were about 28 or 29
general officers, A&M men. I think maybe it was one
admiral and 28 generals. And they decided to make
us all honorary doctors of law. And they also
invited Eisenhower to come at the same time and
made him an honorary doctor of law. So that's the
only degree I have. I never finished the A&M. I went
there just for two years. What did you think of the
ceremony? It was very nice. I now made an
acceptance speech for all of it.
It's just one of those nice things that happen to
you if you're in a high place. General officers,
you get a lot of medals and you get these honorary
degrees. What was the highest ranking A&M officer
at the time? Do you remember? Was he a horse? No, I
think it was three-star. I think it was Lieutenant
General Bruce.
Somewhere I've got a list of the
officers that received that. Well, I'm sure we do
it in the archives too, and I'm sure they have that
in the battalion. I remember there was a General
Moore, and he wasn't there because I think he was in
the hospital. He had been over in Corregidor. In
May of 1947, you lost your command and you were
transferred. What were your feelings about that?
In 1947, I... Did I say 74? I meant 47. Yep, 47. I was
ordered to Brazil, is that what you're talking
about? Yeah, I was wondering about your feelings.
Well, I knew I couldn't be commanding general at
Kelly forever, so I'd already held the job longer
than anybody previous to me.
So, of course, I figured, well, that's what
Washington wants, that's what I want, so
I went down there. I didn't have anything to do when
I got there much, As the military and the Air
Attaché in Debrazile. Combination. Army
Attaché, as the military Attaché and Air Attaché
combination. That's when we were still part of the
Army. While I was down there, the separate Air
Force Act went through and then I just became the
Air Attaché.
I got along fine with Brazil and made some fine
friends down there. I made some friends among
other Attachés, a Canadian Attaché, a
Spanish-era Attaché, and his wife were good
friends of ours. Did
you travel throughout the country quite a bit?
Yes, I traveled. I had a DC-3
assigned to me for the purpose of getting around
and inspecting other countries, and I certainly
took advantage of that by going to every country in
South America. Really? Including the Dutch, the
Guyana, the Dutch Guyana, the British Guyana, and
British Guyana. And sometimes I'd take other
attachés and their wives along, and take my wife
along,
and just sightseeing business. It's a goodwill.
Good relations. Goodwill, and that's about all we
got. And how were the relations with South
America? All good. Good? All good, yeah. Of
course, at this time, we were fighting communism
in Europe, at least ideologically, and also in
Latin America. Was there fear that communists
might win some victories in South America? At that
time, communism hadn't crept in anywhere in South
America, not even Georgetown, British Ghana.
I did make one interesting trip.
Got some Brazilian officers. and we took off and
flew over to Bolivia in a place called Santa Clara
de la Sierra, and then I flew directly north to try
to hit a town called Porto Velho, which is at the end
of a railroad, a railroad about 150 mile long
railroad that goes from Puerto Velho south into
where they used to get rubber. It was made, the
railroad was put in there just to ship the raw
rubber down to Puerto Velho where it was processed
into big balls about this big around. And then it
was shipped by steamer from Puerto Velho down
through Manaus and on north up the Amazon River. at
the United States and wherever else in Hawaii. I
saw a lot of jungle on that trip. If the airplane had
gone down, we'd have been like the Kingsley I
expected in Nicaragua. They probably never found
us. In Puerto Vallejo, they treated us right
royally. I even made a speech in Portuguese after a
couple of drinks. I'd loosen up my tongue.
They took us out the next day to an Indian camp along
the river there. We bought some bows and arrows and
beads and necklaces and whatnot. And the next day
we flew on down to Manalas and we were guests of the
governor of the territory of Manalas, the
territory of Amazonas. and he took us out on his
yacht and had lunch. Anybody who wanted to fish
could fish. I didn't want to fish, so I never did
care much about fishing.
The confluence of the three rivers that come
together there in Manaus, one from the west that
rides in Peru and Venezuela, One from the south,
which Puerto Vallarta is on, that's called the
Madera River. And one from the southeast, I forget
the name of that river, but they all come together
there at Manaus to form the Amazon. And that Amazon
River at Manaus is 50 feet deep. Steamers,
ocean-going steamers, can come all the way up
there. from a thousand miles down at the port.
That's the land. Come up there. That was a river a
thousand miles to Manalas. It is so level that the
tide rises and falls there. No kidding. At
Manalas.
Well, it sounds like Compared to the
responsibilities of having Kelly Air Force Base,
this is pretty easy duty. Yeah, it was too easy for
me. I like work I can get my teeth into. And
this is more of being a diplomat, wasn't it, than
being an officer? Yeah, just friendly diplomatic
stuff. The Brazilian were very friendly with us. I
had a whole division over in Italy fighting with
us. And like a squadron of air force over there. And
Marshal Mascarenhas,
who was commanding over in Italy, he wrote a book
and gave me an autographed copy of it here.
Yeah, you can read that someday when you want. How
nice. I could read it if I wanted to, but I don't.
expeditionary force that they have been. Were you
happy to leave the job? I was happy to leave Brazil
and get back to this country. Why? Because living
conditions in Rio are poor. It's very, very
expensive. I had to pay to rent an apartment. I had
to pay under the table money, a thousand cruzeros,
which at that time was about $250, just for the
privilege of signing a lease on, at the lawful
rate, had rent control. And that went against my
grain, of course, and it was a very poor, it was a
brand new apartment building, but they were
poorly constructed. No heat in it at all, and it
gets cold there in the wintertime. We got a little
electric
heater, and that soon burned out the wiring, and we
put a cheap wiring in the thing. Our windows fit so
poorly that we took towels and stuff. They were
double-hung windows, and we took towels and
stuff. I was wondering why they had a brigadier
general as the attache. Isn't it usually a
colonel? No, that's what they had. Some had one in
Argentina and one in Brazil. I believe Venezuela
had a brigadier general, I'm not sure. Apparently
they bumped up the rank that they deserved.
So when you came back to the United States in 1948,
then what? Did you know that you were going to
retire then? I figured, yeah. You figured that you
would? I figured I was going to retire, and
they put me on them. promotion board first in
Washington on temporary duty there, and when I got
through that duty, I asked to be sent back to Kelly
Field and put on a retired list, which I did. Well,
it says you were ordered into retirement. Yeah.
Well, how did that come about? Well, that's the way
that, that's the way it's worded. You're ordered
into retirement. But you had decided I decided I
wanted to retire, yeah. When did you decide that?
Down in Brazil when I got this hip arthritis in my
head.
So, I retired in July 31st, I believe it was, 1949.
How'd you feel on your retirement day? Oh, I felt
like I was too young to just quit work. I was 52 years
old, so I started looking around. I tried to start a
bank there at Kellyfield, and I had all those
civilian employees, and not all of them, a great
many of them wanted to put money in it. I wrote to all
the general officers I knew that they all wanted
stock in the bank, but I hadn't done my homework, so
I didn't know how to start a bank. I wanted to be
president of the bank. Kelly, that's what I wanted
to do.
I hadn't done my homework, so I never could get it
started. I've got one there now. Did you look
forward to civilian life? Oh, yeah. Did they put a
big, did they have a nice celebration for you?
Well, they had a parade, yeah. Was that at Kelly? At
Kelly,
yeah.
Now, when you were advancing in your military
career, at first, of course, it was a very slow
advancement because of the promotion system, and
then it was very quick advancement. But did you
leave your advancement to fate, or did you, were
you consciously, did you think that you had some
control over your promotions? No, I didn't have
any control over them. I could have probably
gotten a second and a third star if I wanted to
more or less be conformist to what everybody
wanted, I mean the higher ups. I was too much of an
individualist to be promoted.
I won my promotion in spite of the fact that If I was a
maverick, that's the best way I could get. Well,
can you give me some examples of you being a
maverick? Oh, yes, I never... If I thought my
commanding officer was wrong, I would hesitate to
go in and tell him things like that. If I thought the
policy was wrong, I'd write a letter about it or
talk about it. Was there some specific policy or
letter that you wrote that really got you in
trouble? No. Oh, yeah. I got in touch with General
Sandy Fairchild in Washington when I was there as
chief of the inspection. He wanted me to be new, and
I knew all these basic matters. He wanted me to give
him a secret report on that and the poor ones. And I
told him that I didn't like to give secret reports
on anybody. If I gave a report on a substance, such
an officer was a poor base commander, I would put it
in a letter and cite the reasons and send it to the
base, said base commander, for comment. And Sandy
didn't like that. He wanted a secret business.
So he never did like me after that. And he was a very
powerful marshal. He was Vandenberg's assistant
when Vandenberg was chief of staff. Vandenberg
was a good friend of mine. But Fairchild was down on
me. And that was one reason
I never got any higher, which it didn't bother me. I
wasn't out
to push myself up. Would you consider yourself
ambitious?
Not very many people make general. I don't think
that I was ambitious. I wanted whatever I was due,
justly due. You wanted to do the job, right? I don't
think that I was ever trying to push myself for a
promotion. I can't remember. But do you think that
as far as advancement is concerned, I'm
interested in the question of people advance to
become leaders in the military the same way? Do you
do the same things as you advance to become leaders
in the corporate world or the professional world?
I expect it's going to be the same. I don't know. I
never thought of it. I never thought of it that way.
But I expect it. There's a lot of favoritism, I
expect it, in the corporate world and promotion.
And I know there is. military. Well, what do you
mean a lot of favoritism? Do you think there's more
favoritism in the military or do you think it's...
There's some favoritism. You can't get away from
it. Joe Doakes is the head of mine in Washington. He
has his friends that he's known since they went
through the academy together. They went through
A&M together. They were buddies in the air
tactical school.
You can't get away from favoritism and
promotions.
These big heads of corporations, they're bound to
have their own favorites. Do you think that
there's sort of a West Point club in which the
people, you know, there's always this grumbling
that people at West Point get promoted fast? I
don't think they do in the Air Force. You can look
over there. The generals in the Air Force, I think
you'll find just as many from one school as another
almost. And maybe we have more from West Point,
yes, and say Georgia Tech, maybe more than the A&M.
But that's their business. They turn out, what,
1,400 a year or 1,200 or something like that. And
career men and... I think there's bound to be more
general officers from West Point than there is
from these other schools. So I wouldn't call that
favorite to me. Okay. Now, you wrote that
memorandum on leadership, and we're going to keep
that on file there, and we're going to send it back
here. But I'd like you to define leadership for me,
if you would. Well, let me see my notes here. It's
hard, it's hard to define
it. The first question I think was probably why
certain people get to be leaders. They have the
ability
inherently enhanced by living in freedom, and so
on and so forth. I got all these answers here. And I
think you can gather from that what my general
philosophy is on leadership. We'll keep that
there. Go ahead. Well, Xerox, in the military,
there's different types of leaders, of course.
One was sort of the combat-type Patton, and
another one was sort of the manager-type
Eisenhower. Yeah. What type do you think you were?
I think I was a management type. Okay.
I never was in combat.
I practiced for it when I was a pursuit commander.
Okay. Now finally, I'd just like to ask you a couple
of questions about Texas A&M and your ideas on
Texas A&M. I hate to see the Corps, such a small
percentage of the men who go there, and I guess
women too. Women look like women are going to get
into the armed forces, and what do we got, about 15%
women now? What's your opinion of that? I think
it's possibly 15% of the jobs that can be done by
women, but I think it'd be better if we didn't have
them. I think it'd be better if we had just men.
Okay. What do you think about women being at Texas
A&M? When you went to A&M, there weren't any women.
Well... Any women students. What do you think
about allowing them in Texas A&M?
Well, since Texas A&M is not primarily a military
school, I guess I see no reason why they shouldn't
be there.
It's a primary and educational institution, and
there's a certain percentage of women that should
be right along with the men when it comes to
education. Okay. Now, during the 1960s, we
allowed General Rutter. Did you ever know General
Rutter, by the way? No, I didn't. When General
Rudder was the president and he allowed women in.
Also, during the 1960s, blacks were allowed into
Texas A&M for the first time. What was your opinion
of that? Wax? Blacks. Oh, blacks. Well, I think
they deserve to be in there, the same as whites, if
they can keep up. Okay. I think there's a certain
percentage of blacks that have just as fine brains
as... Above average whites. The percentage is
lower than whites
for many, many reasons. But there's some blacks
that have become, I think, brilliant men and
brilliant leaders. You didn't have any blacks in
the Air Force in integrated units until after you
retired. I believe not, yeah. I think they were
just coming in. And what was your opinion toward
integrating the Air Force? It was okay
with me. I don't think you can discriminate
against, or should discriminate against blacks
due to color. Okay. And finally, what do you think
about now, as you say, the Corps is a small
percentage of students at A&M because it's no
longer mandatory for people to be in the Corps of
Cadets at Texas A&M. What's your opinion of ending
the mandatory rule?
Well, as I said before, it's not primarily a
military institution. Right. I see no reason why
it should be mandatory for them to be in the Corps.
I'd like to see more of them volunteer to be in the
Corps, but that may come later. We had a long period
here of permissiveness where we were raising a
bunch of brats. I'm sure some of them got into A&M
and we wouldn't even want them in the Corps.
I look to see more, I expect to see more of the
students that are in the Corps in the future than
they are now. I hope so. What do you think about
reinstating the draft? Do you think we should have
a volunteer service or a draft? I don't think women
should be drafted. Well, what about men? Right now
we have a volunteer service. I think it was a
mistake to ever put it in. And I think we'll
eventually have to probably go back to the draft
just
to keep up our strength in our forces. If you keep
trying to pay them as much as they were getting
civilian lives, it looks to me like it makes the top
heavy in pay. versus equipment, hardware and
software.
Yeah, I think Nixon made a mistake
in demanding him the draft because it's going to be
awful hard to put it back in. Yeah, sure it is. I'm
about out of questions, General. Is there
anything else that you'd like to talk about as far
as your career? We have your manuscript that I'm
going to take back, which is your memoirs, and your
ideas of leadership, which are down on paper in El
Xerox. Is there anything that you think we should
talk about? I can't think of anything, Terry. I
think we've covered everything that I can think
of, and if there's anything that I think of, later
why I can put it in under remarks. Sure, you can edit
it right in. And I may think of some other things,
but right now I'm out of ideas. Thank you very much
in general for this interview. Well, I'm very
happy to do it.